In this exercise, you were able to get a feel for how
AWS config can help identify vulnerabilities in your AWS account.
I'll go through this exercise in my account by setting up some example config rules.
So I have logged into my AWS account and
from the console page I will go to the AWS config service.
Let's first check the settings for AWS config.
As you can see, I have config recording on and I have
chosen to record only the S3 bucket resources.
Let's take a look at my rules.
I have added one rule to check for compliance.
This rule will check S3 buckets in my account to
ensure that they have the server side encryption setting enabled.
If I go into the rule,
I can see details about which resources are out of compliance.
I originally had a four buckets which were out of compliance.
So I had remediated the issue on two of those buckets,
to ensure that they have default server-side encryption enabled.
After having remediated the vulnerability,
the rule compliance change to compliant from non compliant.
I can go to the newly compliant resource to see
the timeline and what specific configuration items may have changed.
This shows my timeline and this is when
there was a change to put the resource in compliance.
Let's see what changed.
As you can see, this bucket had server-side encryption enabled and went into compliance.
AWS config is a powerful tool to track
configuration changes and compliance violations in your AWS account.
I encourage you to explore the AWS config dashboard,
conformance packs, and rule aggregation features in more depth.